was being involved. And then know ahead of time
what was going on. And if I didn't like it, do all I
could to head it off. It's easier to prevent
something than it is to change it. More after it's
done, yeah. Yeah. And so I was a director for about
10 years. And one day, some of them came up to me and
said, would you run for chairman of the board? And I
said, yeah, I would like to. And this was in...
That's when they first approached me, because it
was in 78, February of 78, I was elected chairman of
the board. And
that whole year I was... Is that rotating, or is
that an annual, or can you continue re-election?
In the TVMA, you cannot be re-elected to the post
that you have. That's in any of the posts. If you're
third vice president, you cannot run for third
vice president. Now, if you're second vice
president, you can run for third vice president.
But you cannot run for the office that you
presently hold. So I finished the year as chairman
of the board, and I ran for third vice president,
and I got beat. I got beat out by Dennis McIntosh,
who had gotten beat out twice, but he had run for
third vice president, got beat out, and he ran
again for second vice president, got beat out by
the same guy, and then the next year came up, I was
running for third vice president, so he ran for
third vice president, and he beat me. So I was as
stubborn as he was, so I ran against him, ran for
second vice president the next year, and he beat me
again. And in the meantime I got busy and I didn't
have enough time to deal with it. So I laid out
several years, I mean I was still a director, but I
wasn't running for any of the offices. And I guess
it was in the,
I'm not sure just what year it was, was it eight
years ago? I guess it was in eight.
I was just 15 years old at that time, so it was in 82.
Maybe that's when we just changed over to the new
bylaws, which had a chairman-elect. So they no
longer, this is the last time they would elect a
chairman because there's one elected
chairman-elect, and it was in the early years. And
I was sitting out there waiting for the board of
directors meeting to start, and there's four or
five of them come over to me, and they says... will
you run for chairman of the board? What? And we want
you to run for chairman of the board. We've got
somebody we want to get in as chairman-elect. He
says, but you've already been chairman once, so
you know about what it is. You don't need to be
chairman-elect. Will you run for
chairman-elect? I said, sure. And so at the end of
the meeting, when they come up, I'm in for
chairman-elect. I'm in chairman, and I won. So as
far as I know, I was the first one to ever be, first
and only one to ever be chairman of the board twice.
But there was a stand in between. And I succeeded
and went up the steps, third vice president,
second vice president, first president, second
president, all through it. I had been opposed on
several of those, but I was fortunate all of those I
did win.
So you became president in 87. Now, at that time,
were there any special problems or situations
sort of facing the association that you felt like
you were particularly willing to deal with? Well,
the biggest thing that I was wanting to try to deal
with at that time was membership and apathy.
Membership's always going to be a problem. I feel
that there is no reason in the world why we don't
have 100% of the veterinarians belong to the state
association, but we don't. We have about
two-thirds, which every time I go to one of the
other states, they say, well, you're doing real
good, but I'm still not proud of that. So I've
worked hard on trying to get increasing
membership. We get some, we get some. But there's a
whole lot of them that the veterinarian today is
smarter than they were when I first got in. There's
a whole bunch of them that can figure. They know
that they don't pass laws that are good for
veterinarians that are members of the
association. They pass laws that are good for
veterinarians. being that we've got an
association that's strong, and they work and
lobby and get these things paid for. They're
willing to let you do it. And so for the $150 that
they paid, you know how many cases of beer they can
buy? I mean, you know, figure that real quick. I
mean, shoot, I can ride along free. And like I've
told them, you know, the apathy fits in there then,
too. We've got a lot of members that are paying in.
to do things for other people. And they don't ever
say anything to them. Where if the same guy was
running the wire over their house and draining
their electricity from them, so he didn't have to
pay the electric bill, man, they'd jump on him in a
hurry. If he was out there siphoning gas out of his
truck, he'd be on him in a hurry. But it's the same
thing, see. And say, well, he's a good old boy. I
know him. And you know that my kids go to school with
his kids and all that. I don't ever say anything to
him. It's stealing. Somewhat in the same
connection, what kind of relationships did you
have with the college when you were president? And
do you see an apathy or a schism or a lack of
communication between the college and the
profession? Well, the college in general, I have
good relationships with. Individuals at the
college, it all depends. Some of them I have very
bad relations with. I've never been one to beat
around the bush. I call a spade a spade, a son of a
bitch a son of a bitch, and that's the way it is. And
some of them don't like it. And the college is, I see
it, and you may take offense to admit that you're
part of the college, but the college, in a way, is
only interested about the college. Yeah, I think
there is. They're looking after themselves. They
claim, well, it's for the profession. And yes, it
is, in a way. But yet, they're still, number one,
it's a self-aggrandizing sort of thing. I mean,
they're not going to beat themselves out of a job.
And it's always looking, well, can I get another
brother in here? Like I was mentioning, the
difference in the size of the faculty. Yeah, I
picked up on that. 19 when I was there, they've got
twice as many students now, and they've got five or
six times more faculty, and they're
short-handed. Some of them are not working. And
I'm not sure just where a nice, happy medium is
there. I mean, I don't want to be one that is against
progress. But I don't want to be just, you know,
you're paying the bills for all kinds of things. So
there are some at the college that, I mean, in
general, I got along good. Oh, yeah, I know. I mean,
I went out of my way, for one thing, because in the
position as president of the TVMA, you need to keep
good relations. And we even established an extra
committee the year that I was president-elect for
coordinating a lot of things to where we get a
little better relationship. Because one of the
bad relationships we had with it, I was telling
you, we don't have but about two-thirds
membership in the total profession in there, but
it's even lower than that of college professors.
Yeah, that's what I've picked up on quite a bit. And
there again, when I go to other states that have
universities, they say, God, you're doing real
good. There's only one state that has a better
percentage. That's North Carolina, and the state
pays their dues. So they all belong. Well, when
they established their veterinary school there,
they established it that the fees that they take
in, part of it goes into a fund to pay the professors
professional dues to various things. And a
certain percentage of that goes in that pot for
that. And they're the only ones that are ahead of
us. But that's kind of a problem area, I sense. And
you need to be heading back to your office pretty
quick. But what are some of the What do you see as the
major problems facing the profession today? And
if you were writing a history of veterinary
medicine, what kind of message do you think such a
history should convey? The history is there for
itself. The future bothers me in a way, except that
I'm an eternal optimist. I think veterinarians
are hardy and they're going to survive. Things are
going to go now. Veterinarians need to quit being
so apathetic And I have to say veterinarians and
Aggies, because there's so many of them, and most
of the veterinarians in the state are Aggies, and
they're all gung-ho for their school, and
anything the school does has got to be right, you
know. It's not subtle. They've got to question a
few things that come by. I used to be the same way,
you know. Sure, yeah. Whatever the school did, you
know, that is right, because these guys are the
professors. They're the ones that taught me. I
didn't start thinking different until none of
those that taught me are there anymore. Is the
Aggie Association a professional plus? I don't
know. I never thought about that before. I don't
know. With the public, with the general public. It
is and it isn't. To other Aggies, it darn sure
isn't. Oh, sure. Others are not because I
personally have always said that the two most
obnoxious people in the world As far as school
people are concerned are people from Arkansas and
people from A&M and outsiders. And of course if
you're an insider, well they're great. But anyway
they tend to never question anything that the
school does because it is the school. The same way
for years I'd go to a seminar and because the guy was
behind the microphone Whatever he said was law. He
was right. That's wrong. I began to question
things. I'm not the smartest guy in the world, but
I'm no dummy. Some of these things are wrong. You do
need to question. I think that one of the things
that has come up that bothers me more than anything
is the fact that I hate to see anybody give up
privileges or things, and they're pushing to get a
national license. I could argue both sides, but I
hate to see a state give up its right to issue
licenses. Is the AVMA pushing that role? Oh, yeah.
Everybody's pushing to get, you know, if you can be
licensed in the country, then you can go anywhere
you want. I'm not for that, and also special
licenses. I agree with that. to a point, depending
on what it is. But if they're going to start
training technicians to do things, you're going
to do it in the way of veterinarians. And the first
thing, it's going to come to a mechanic. It's no
longer going to be an art of medicine. It's going to
be a mechanic of medicine. And it worries me. I'm
not going to live that long. I was watching that,
then, because I was not aware of that national
licensing. Well, they're pushing for it. Pew
Report is just out in there. I got it. I've been
going through that. I'm reading it. There are some
things in there that, there again, I can see both
sides, and I can argue both ways, and it's like so
many things that you have to be careful what you
allow, because when you allow these, you open the
gate for the other. You cannot be selective. So if
you can't, you better shut the door on the thing
that you like. I'd like to see... limited
licensure. Just telling you, my youngest
daughter is not a veterinarian, but she's a
breeding specialist. And she does have real
transfer. Well, this is a big hot thing right now.
And they had proposed last legislation to allow
them at your licensing for real transfer, those
that were not veterinarians. Well, they decided,
no, it's what we'll do. We'll leave it like it is.
And as long as nobody is complaining, it's OK. But I
feel that it should be limiting licensure. Now, I
feel this way that if you have somebody that's a
specialist, I mean, she's got her master's in that
field. It's not a matter of you're taking some guy
that's a dropout from high school, and you're
training him to do this and letting him do it. I
mean, there's a difference there. There's a
difference in degree and difference in skill.
Well, this would, to me, be something like your
anesthesiologist or something like that. Well,
this is where limited licensure should come. See,
there's a lot of people that are board-certified
specialists that would like to move to this state,
but say their surgeries are filled. They have to
take the general testing. Hey, now wait a minute,
why don't you license me to do surgery on a referral
basis? I can see that that could probably and
should be done. But they do that for the
professors, more or less. They have a limited
licensure for the professors at the college. For a
long time, they didn't have to have a license if
they were in the college. Well, now it's in the law.
They have to have one, but they can take a separate
kind of an exam, but they have to only work They can
do consulting work. I mean, they can't moonlight.
They can just do what comes through the clinic. And
there's some of them before, you know, they're
doing the clinic, and then they got a friend out
here, you know, they do this, and they moonlight.
Well, that's illegal because it's their licenses
they're not taking. That's interesting. I can see
where that would be. I mean, none of this is cut and
dry that this is good or bad. With any good, there's
always some bad. Yeah. So there's really a lot
going on in the profession in terms of that. And
that's why I'd try to stay, I want to be one of those
that is in on the discussion. And at least I know
that I got it in my legs even if I got outvoted. And
Lord knows I've been outvoted many, many times.
It's easy. Well, for one thing, I get uneasy if
things are going to railroad. I mean, everything
is all good. Now, I'll stand up and I'll say, I'll
holler, hey, now wait a minute. There's got to be a
downside somewhere. And we better discuss this
now and find out what it is ahead of time. And so I've
taken some stands on things that I really didn't
believe in. But just in order to raise the point.
Yeah, and of course then they said, well, Zeke will
argue about anything. They're right. They're
right. That's good. That's good. So you need a good
critic around. Somebody to call the halt to things
I guess I better let you get back to your place of
business, but I really appreciate it. Is there
anything that you'd like to know? Not that I know of
right now, but if you don't mind, I'd like to feel
free to call. Anytime. Let me get your phone number
and everything down. Area code 817-283-5771.
That's the office. At home, it's 281-8056.
I really don't expect you to call me, but there
might be something coming up that I really need
some good information on.